# Team-Trojan-hammer_echo-SBSPS-Challenge-5525-AI-Assisted-Farming-for-Crop-Recommendation-Farm-Yie
echo "# SBSPS-Challenge-5525-AI-Assisted-Farming-for-Crop-Recommendation-Farm-Yield-Prediction-Application" >> README.md git init git add README.md git commit -m "first commit" git branch -M main git remote add origin https://github.com/smartinternz02/SBSPS-Challenge-5525-AI-Assisted-Farming-for-Crop-Recommendation-Farm-Yield-Prediction-Application.git git push -u origin main
Description

Accurate prediction of crop yield supported by scientific and domain-relevant insights, is useful to improve agricultural breeding, provide monitoring across diverse climatic conditions and thereby protect against climatic challenges to crop production. We used performance records from Uniform Soybean Tests (UST) in North America to build a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM)—Recurrent Neural Network based model that leveraged pedigree relatedness measures along with weekly weather parameters to dissect and predict genotype response in multiple-environments. Our proposed models outperformed other competing machine learning models such as Support Vector Regression with Radial Basis Function kernel (SVR-RBF), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and the data-driven USDA model for yield prediction. Additionally, for providing interpretability of the important time-windows in the growing season, we developed a temporal attention mechanism for LSTM models. The outputs of such interpretable models could provide valuable insights to plant breeders.
Management and permanent environmental effects have been examined primarily at small scales due to the labor required for managing large numbers of plots . With the addition of each layer of added characterization of the environment, less of the differences need be ascribed to a generic “environmental” component, and can instead be examined individually in combination with plant genetics. The nexus of genetic and non-genetic variables form the cornerstone of plant breeding strategies, irrespective of crop species, for meeting crop production challenges in the future .

Climatic resiliency in cultivars is an important objective for plant breeders and farmers to get a high seed yield in a myriad of environments . The climatic variability can be associated with changes in temperature and rainfall events (including patterns and magnitude) and other weather variables. In addition to spatial variability, temporal variability of weather variables  is equally important but generally less understood in yield prediction studies. It is important to understand how agricultural production is affected by the variability of weather parameters in the presence of global climate change, especially with higher occurrence of extreme weather events. Therefore, prediction of the effects of changing environments on performance can help in making informed plant breeding decisions, marketing decisions, optimizing production and comparing results over multiple years .

Novelty / Uniqueness:

Traditionally, crop growth models have been proposed to simulate and predict crop production in different scenarios including climate, genotype, soil properties, and management factors . These provide a reasonable explanation on biophysical mechanisms and responses but have deficiencies related to input parameter estimation and prediction in complex and unforeseen circumstances . Previous attempts at yield prediction across environments have relied on crop models generated by quantifying response in a limited number of lines while altering a single environmental variable, limiting the inference scope . To bypass the limitations of crop growth models, linear models have also been used to predict yield with some success . However, these low-capacity models typically rely on a rather small subset of factors, therefore failing to capture the complexity of biological interactions and more site-specific weather variable complexities. Traditional linear methods such as Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) have been used for time series forecasting problems , but these methods are effective in predicting future steps in the same time-series. Considering the importance of climate extremes for agricultural predictions, random forest has been utilized to predict grid-cell deviations of yields . For time series prediction tasks, deep neural networks show robustness to noisy inputs and also have the capability to approximate arbitrary non-linear functions . Deep learning models can provide solutions in the presence of such complex data comprising of different weather variables, maturity groups and zones, and genotype information. These models can be highly efficient in learning the non-linear dependencies between multivariate input data (weather variables along with maturity group, cluster information) and the predicted yield.

Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) networks are very useful for time series modeling as they can capture the long-term temporal dependencies in complex multivariate sequences . LSTMs have shown state-of-the-art results in various applications including off-line handwriting recognition , natural language processing  and engineering systems . LSTMs have also been used effectively for multivariate time series prediction tasks . LSTM based model has been used for corn yield estimation , but these models lack interpretability as well. is based on geospatial data without field-scale farming management data and lacks temporal resolution in the absence of daily weather data. Attention based LSTM has been used along with multi-task learning (MTL) output layers  for county level corn yield anomaly prediction only based on meteorological data (maximum daily temperature, minimum daily temperature) without field-scale farming data. Previous work  using deep learning for yield prediction has utilized multi-spectral images to predict yield (instead of leveraging only multivariate time series as input) without considering model interpretability. applied deep neural networks for yield prediction of maize hybrids using environmental data, but their model is not capable of explicitly capturing the temporal correlations and also lacks interpretability. Other approaches to predict yield rely on the use of sensors to identify the most informative set of variables to predict yield , which is very useful in multiple applications. However, there is still a need to integrate weather parameters using a time series approach involving multiple genotypes. In addition to accurate prediction, the ability to interpret domain-relevant prediction outcomes from a machine learning model (learning temporal dependencies from multivariate time series) can significantly benefit the domain experts in the field of plant breeding.

Using these motivations, we developed a model that can capture the temporal variability of different weather variables across the growing season in an interpretable manner to predict soybean yield 

Business / Social Impact:

We tried to establish the potential for use of a long short-term memory-based method for yield prediction to allow models to account for temporal differences in the occurrence of weather events. Predictions using this system can be made reasonably accurate due to a large amount of training data made available through the mining of historical records. Our approach (using LSTM and attention) is an efficient modeling scheme to analyze soybean crop growth interaction with the weather, as well as to identify key physio-environmental features that are important to include into any predictive model. For example, differences in the timing of extreme heat events, as well as drought periods, would affect soybean plants in various ways depending on the stage of plant development. For example, heat stress during flowering is particularly damaging while heat in vegetative stages of development may have less drastic impact on seed yield . With a larger encompassing dataset, breeders and researchers can be empowered to parse out most informative time periods, weather variables and crop responses. This information sets up the framework for breeding strategies to develop climate resilient and responsive varieties.
Over the decades, the traditional practices of agriculture have been transformed. The increasing population and scarcity of land has invoked people to get creative and efficient. Using the available land to its optimum level has become vital. Previously, people were reluctant to adapt to the technological improvements. However, now it is mandatory that they accommodate to these advancements in order to survive in the industry. Technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, etc. have emerged to bring evolution to various industries.

The artificial intelligence (AI) technology is supporting different sectors to boost their productivity. The AI solutions have helped overcome the challenges faced by several industries and now it is steadily making its place in the agriculture sector too.  AI technologies have a sizable impact on the agriculture sector. It has helped the sector grow in various ways.

The ability to make accurate predictions of crop performance can lead to optimization across many different levels of organizations. At the federal level, improved crop insurance recommendations can be made based on weather forecasts before planting, and be continually updated throughout the season as more data is recorded and forecasts are updated. Crop insurance decisions for providers and clients rely on weather events. This is reflected, for example, in the date of planting and risk associated with seedling frost damage. The same is applicable for fall season killing frost. Therefore, both insurers and farmers can benefit from a robust crop performance prediction that includes weather parameters. These losses are not just from weather related events such as frost, but also drought, and diseases/insect-pest that may also be indirectly related to weather conditions. Furthermore, individual and area plans can benefit from crop yield prediction; and yield as well as revenue protection type of crop insurance will be impacted from better crop performance prediction built on weather. Railroads, grain cooperatives, and end-users can streamline the logistics of handling the desired quantities of grain if they are permitted a better understanding of how much grain (and of what quality) will be produced in a given region. Farmers can make better marketing decisions if they have an accurate and high confidence prediction of their production for the year, allowing them to sell their crops at the most opportune time. For example, farmers can better utilize price guarantees or price locks in the futures market if they have better prediction tools at their disposal. We envision that similar work on other crops and over a longer time span will generate invaluable insights for cultivar development and plant breeding and production related research in a challenging climate.

Technology Architecture:

Our work shows a unique strategy to assimilate and utilize complex data for seed yield prediction. For comparison purposes, we compared our models with the SVR-RBF, LASSO and the data-driven USDA model. The USDA model has a limitation on the type of data it can utilize and is limited in its application. For example, as the USDA model computes predictions at the state level, the finer resolution available with our model may help in making regional marketing decisions, as well as in creating yield predictions which can capture intra-state variation due to factors such as differences in rainfall (amount, duration, time) in different areas of the state. Since our results are built on more than a decade of data, it also reflects that early season weather variables are less useful in seed yield prediction and needs empirical evidence to confirm the genetic variability in plasticity of soybean genotypes in earlier stages of growth and development. Importantly, we emphasize that the utilization of the attention module within a LSTM framework allows us to tease out potentially important features for further testing. This alleviates the disadvantage of DL models—which serve as purely blackbox predictive models—by allowing for hypothesis generation that will allow scientific insight via targeted follow up analysis and experiments.

The advantages of LSTM based models have been recently established for maize yield prediction at a county level , but the model lacked interpretability. Attention based LSTM along with multi-task learning (MTL) output layers has also been used for maize yield prediction using county level data based on meteorological data (maximum daily temperature, minimum daily temperature, and daily precipitation) . These studies are important for solving the yield prediction challenge; however, models are based on geospatial data without field-scale farming management data and variety information is indiscernible, and based on limited weather variables.

Scope of the Work:

Our work shows a unique strategy to assimilate and utilize complex data for seed yield prediction. For comparison purposes, we compared our models with the SVR-RBF, LASSO and the data-driven USDA model. The USDA model has a limitation on the type of data it can utilize and is limited in its application. For example, as the USDA model computes predictions at the state level, the finer resolution available with our model may help in making regional marketing decisions, as well as in creating yield predictions which can capture intra-state variation due to factors such as differences in rainfall (amount, duration, time) in different areas of the state. Since our results are built on more than a decade of data, it also reflects that early season weather variables are less useful in seed yield prediction and needs empirical evidence to confirm the genetic variability in plasticity of soybean genotypes in earlier stages of growth and development. Importantly, we emphasize that the utilization of the attention module within a LSTM framework allows us to tease out potentially important features for further testing. This alleviates the disadvantage of DL models—which serve as purely blackbox predictive models—by allowing for hypothesis generation that will allow scientific insight via targeted follow up analysis and experiments.

The advantages of LSTM based models have been recently established for maize yield prediction at a county level , but the model lacked interpretability. Attention based LSTM along with multi-task learning (MTL) output layers has also been used for maize yield prediction using county level data based on meteorological data (maximum daily temperature, minimum daily temperature, and daily precipitation). These studies are important for solving the yield prediction challenge; however, models are based on geospatial data without field-scale farming management data and variety information is indiscernible, and based on limited weather variables.

A large capacity machine learning approach, such as the one presented in this paper using LSTM and temporal attention will be robust to incorporate weather changes and adjust performance predictions accordingly. Additional information that may improve the results of this approach is the inclusion of any supplemental irrigation provided, soil fertility levels, disease pressure and resistance levels, and direct genetic markers for the tested varieties, all of which would further strengthen predictive ability. While a lack of molecular marker data for each line precludes us from leveraging genomic prediction and integrating with the LSTM model, this is a logical next step as such data becomes available. The models performed reasonably well in absence of crop management and soil data, but these can be incorporated in future studies to further leverage the predictive ability of our models. Therefore, future implementations may be expanded to include genomic data, additional factors such as preceding crop, row spacing, planting date, soil texture, or additional temporal data in the forms of soil sensor measurements and remote sensing data for morphological and physiological traits. The approach presented in this work will further enhance phenomics assisted breeding and prescriptive breeding that use in-season data from different sensors and payloads  using machine and deep learning approaches suitable in plant sciences applications . The basic framework of LSTM for the phenotypic prediction can be applied to any crop and trait with weather-dependent variability in order to better understand the genotype x environment effects found in the course of multi-environment testing. While we present the usefulness of LSTM and attention based models on seed yield predictions and associated variable importance, this approach is trait agnostic and will be useful for a wide variety of useful traits including root traits.

Unraveling the importance of different weather parameters would be a substantial step forward in understanding the impact of climate change on variety’s plasticity. Viewed through the lens of interpretability, DL based predictive models vs process based predictive models have distinct pros and cons. Process based models have clear relationships (by construction); however the dependency is limited to the confines of the model parameters, and it is non-trivial to assimilate additional data to extract broader trends. On the other hand, accurately interpreting DL based model outcomes is an open problem in the AI/ML community, with much activity. However, DL models (in contrast with the process-based models) have the ability to seamlessly assimilate additional data. Our vision is therefore to evaluate if systematically augmenting DL based predictive models with increasing amounts of physio-morphological informative features provides a way towards unraveling scientific insights. We can accomplish this by deploying our DL framework as a ‘hypotheses generation tool’. We build DL models using a large volume of data and variety of information incorporating domain based knowledge. We can then systematically probe the impact of various physio-morphological and environmental parameters on yield (via sensitivity analysis, and “what if” scenario evaluation), and establish a framework to generate hypotheses in different crop species and physio-morphological characteristics under different climatic conditions. Until explicitly interpretable DL becomes feasible, the hypotheses generation DL models will have the maximum impact in meeting the need of climate change scenarios and to incorporate plasticity response in future varieties.
